|[WEEK 1](Week1.md)|[WEEK 2](Week2.md)|[WEEK 3](Week3.md)|[WEEK 4](Week4.md)|[WEEK 5](Week5.md)|[WEEK 6](Week6.md)|[WEEK 8](Week8.md)|[WEEK 9](Week9.md)|[WEEK 10](Week10.md)|


# MCA
## Week 1
### Task 2
The central theme within my dataset is the music of The Beatles. The Beatles can be categorised as an English popular rock band which hold a large musical and cultural significance. The core contributing performers include John Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison, and Ringo Starr. Their catalogue primarily was produced and released within between the years of 1960 to 1970. The core of their discography is their 12 studio albums, although other manifestations of their music have been released through singles, EPs, compilations, and live albums.
### Task 3
The diversity of the manifestations of musical data, such notated and audio data, can span across analogue and digital forms meaning the challenges for collection, preservation, curation, and accessibility of music data spans across physical and digital spaces. Building on this, access to music data and music-related data is heavily governed by ownership and licensing rights. Cooperation, standardisation, and interoperability are challenges when managing and creating value with music data, especially with digital spheres. This becomes especially pertinent if aiming to analyse, or create meaningful applications of musical data sets through machines. Lastly, better governance across the music sector in related to data standards is required in order to relieve many issues.

In relation to my dataset, the musical data of The Beatles illustrates many of these issues within a context of popular modern music. The Beatles especially articulate the complicated issue of ownership and licensing. Through the time since the intital releases of their core discography, ownership has shifted at many points. Currently, the rights to their music are known to be divided between Paul McCartney and Sony Music Publishing, meaning rights to much of their sheet music and recordings are strictly held until released in public domain. Current manifestations of their music are therefore held and distributed across analogue and digital platforms under the title of the band. Recording and performances are easily accessible via these mediums, however, their notated music is harder to aquire. Much of their catalogue has been published through various collections, as well as some being unofficialy distributed online through websites dedicated to notated music (although this is often for a fee). Therefore, in therms of their musical data as a wider set, much of its presentation, description and analysis are governed by the platforms and mediums in which they distrubute, whether this be large music platforms such as Spotfiy, YouTube, and Apple Music, or within archives.
